[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard, and
this is "Mystery Teachings."
We often hear talk of ascension
in various spiritual circles.
But what, really, is it?
In this episode, we take a
look at what this process is
and why now is the
time for humanity
as a collective to
make this great leap.
Throughout the ages,
humans have sought ways
to fully realize our potential.
Over the millennia,
Mystery Schools
have accumulated knowledge,
understanding, and wisdom
for how we can ascend, both
individually and collectively.
This method for
reaching new heights
in our spiritual
evolution is what
is known as the art and
science of ascension.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Many people associate the
idea of ascension with leaving
the Earth density or
transcending the body.
But this is a
misleading concept.
That is what happens
after physical death
not while we're still alive.
Ascension is not about leaving
the physical body behind
and escaping the Earth.
Rather, it's about
ascending the body with us,
taking it up to
higher vibrations,
while simultaneously embodying
more of our full divine
potential into this body.
In order to do that, we have
to transform and transmute
the physical body into
the body of light.
There are many traditions
that talk about this process.
In the Tibetan and
Eastern traditions,
there's the idea of the rainbow
body, or the great perfection.
In the Kabbalistic tradition,
we talk about the Adam Kadmon,
the perfected human.
The ancient and secret
Kabbalistic science
of building the
Merkabah, an ascension
vehicle for our transformation,
is still practiced today,
although it is not what many
in the new age think it to be.
Some even talk
about the apotheosis
of George Washington,
which is intriguing,
as we know many of the founding
fathers of the United States
studied with an initiatory
path with true lineage roots
in the Western Mystery
School tradition.
And then alchemy talks about
the Philosopher's Stone
as the culmination
of the great work.
Hermes Trismegistus
called himself
thrice great because he
fully attained the three
parts of the philosophy
of the whole world,
meaning the perfection of
the body, soul, and spirit.
What is the scientific basis
for this transformation
of the physical body
into a light body?
The key is within
the quantum physics
and atomic
consciousness, where we
can learn to tap
into what alchemists
called The Secret Fire.
This is the core
essence of source
as it flows into our
physical atoms and DNA.
This source in the physical is
within our own consciousness.
Modern-day alchemist
Dennis William Hauck
says, "The alchemists
believed that the driving
force behind the
evolution of matter,
the connection between the
mental and physical reality,
was fire."
This fire must operate
at the quantum level
within the zero point field.
In essence, alchemists sought
to harness the secret fire,
that power of higher
consciousness,
in order to access
the central fire
or divine spark within
matter and draw it out.
They believed that
through this process,
they could transform matter into
its ultimate perfected state.
If we can learn to achieve
a coherent state of being
and have a daily practice
with meditation every day,
we can activate more and more
of that secret fire within.
This then draws to it what we
can call the celestial fire
or light that is the smallest
particle of consciousness
from source.
This is the smallest
building block of matter.
It is at the central
core of every atom.
And this particle
of consciousness
is within the nuclei.
It acts as a portal through
which divine consciousness
enters into manifestation.
It is the essence of
source in this world.
It has the seed of
divinity within it.
This seed is something that we,
as conscious and aware beings,
can tap into using our own
secret fire of consciousness
to reach it.
As we achieve a state
of coherence within,
we raise our
vibration and activate
that secret fire of our
own quantum consciousness.
We begin to then draw
into us more and more
of the celestial fire, more
light from the universe.
And as it begins to accumulate
within us over time,
this transmutes our physical
body into a body of light.
What are the indicators
are signs that ascension
is starting to happen?
Well, to begin with,
we may experience
what could be called
symptoms of ascension.
As the light particles
come in, they hit densities
within our body and soul.
And these densities
may block the light
or have difficulty
interacting with it.
These can be physical,
mental, and emotional toxins
or blockages.
The light begins to break
down these densities little
by little.
Some of these toxins
that pollute our system
may have become
buried deep within
and are currently
in a passive state.
And as that breakdown
process starts,
it moves them into
a more active state,
bringing them to the surface to
be eliminated from the system.
Physical toxins may get
flushed into the bloodstream
or other systems of
elimination within the body.
But at the emotional
level, things
unearth from the subconscious.
And we may start to feel
the emotion rise up.
We may not know why we're
feeling that emotion,
but we are.
It's like a detoxing or
catharsis, a healing process,
where we first have to feel in
order to choose to let it go.
And at the mental
level, we may also
have belief systems come
up into our awareness.
We may ask, is this
true for me anymore?
We become aware of
our belief systems
and begin to question
them and make new choices.
And with any of these processes,
there's always a choice.
We can suppress or address it.
And we can let it keep
moving out of the system.
With the physical detox,
we may also feel symptoms
like headaches or nausea,
fatigue, or what we sometimes
call density drops.
The body is physically
trying to fight off a toxin
and eliminate it
from the system.
It's similar to when
we catch a cold,
and the body's immune system
is trying to fight it off.
And in these cases,
we need to make
the right choices that support
our physical healing process.
Rather than ignoring
the physical feelings
or masking it with drugs
or other addictions,
we should listen to the body.
It's telling us to slow
down, rest, drink more water,
or load up on those vitamins
and minerals and herbs
that will help you get well.
Only when we give our
body what it really
needs to heal and
become stronger can
it push out whatever
the toxin is.
And with ascension, we
are raising our vibration
within our physical body.
So we want to avoid things
that have denser vibrations
or that alter our consciousness
in a way that's not controlled
and coherent application
of the right tools.
Things like drugs, alcohol,
cigarettes, and the like
can interfere with the
process of ascension.
In order to ascend, we must
access higher consciousness
by creating a sustainable way
for our own inner alchemical
process, rather than relying on
external sources to shift us.
It's really about eliminating
the denser vibrations
and things that weigh
down our system.
We also have to go
through the healing
process for emotional
and mental trauma.
These are also
toxins to the soul
and create energy blocks
within our aura and mind.
Now, sometimes the
emotions can be
stored within the organs
or the tissues of the body.
Mental belief systems can create
blockages of the perceptions.
And these are all
the things that we
need to work on clearing
in order to ascend.
Yeah, it will require
a level of discipline.
But it doesn't mean that
life will be boring.
Living the Middle
Pillar lifestyle,
like what we're
talking about here,
is full of joy, clear awareness,
greater consciousness,
and peace.
True ascension is a process
that becomes a lifestyle.
We have the ability to access
a broad spectrum of vibrations
within.
Of course, we can have
a weekend experience,
and we can have a peak moment
during that type of experience.
But that doesn't mean
we've integrated it
into our life as our new
foundation or base for life.
Ascension is about
raising our baseline
through a cyclic
process that we call
the evolving triangle of
knowledge, understanding,
and wisdom.
We progress and serve through
this process over and over
again.
And as we do, it
raises our baseline,
bringing the physical
up to higher levels.
We can have many peak moments
as we go through this process.
But even more important
is that as we continue
to follow this
process of ascension,
the more our new low
points will be higher
than our previous high points.
And then, of course,
the high points
will also reach new heights.
So what is the evolving triangle
of knowledge, understanding,
and wisdom?
This teaching comes from
the Modern Mystery School
and is something that I have
directly experienced as true.
It's a powerful way to
live a meaningful life.
It's also called the Hermetic
Science of Ascension.
Let's start with knowledge.
What do we mean by knowledge?
Well, it's about seeking
new information that will
help us to grow and progress.
But knowledge must be
applied if it's going
to lead towards progression.
We won't know it
until we live it
and integrate it into our lives.
Knowledge for the
sake of knowledge
won't get us anywhere.
But knowledge that
can be applied to life
and lead to progression--
that's what we're seeking.
Some of the most important
knowledge is that of the self.
Who are we?
What are our gifts?
What is our purpose?
That's the knowledge
we should be seeking.
And rather than having
the concept or idea of it,
we must apply it
through application.
We grow in our learning.
We refine, and we get results.
Then we can always course
correct if we're not
applying it in the right way.
And from this process, we then
come to greater understanding
of what was once a concept.
We ultimately come to
master it for ourselves.
From here, in order
to continue forward,
we have to take
that understanding
and now strive towards wisdom.
What gets us from
understanding to wisdom?
What can take us beyond
our personal understanding?
We've already applied it.
We've integrated it.
And we're living it.
And this brought us
to understanding.
The only thing that can take
us further now and raise
our vibration up
to wisdom is now
stepping into an
active role of service,
serving with what we understand.
If we have knowledge and
start teaching the information
without understanding, then we
won't have a strong foundation
to stand on.
We have to work with it for a
while through selfless service.
Service is what raises our
vibration up to higher planes
to reach wisdom.
What is service?
Well, service is
about helping others
remember and progress toward
their full divine potential.
And there are steps
in this process.
The first three steps
include service to self,
service to others, and service
to God or the greater whole.
And we start with
service to self, which
is about our own physical life.
It's about having joy in
life, taking care of our body,
doing what we need
to fill our cup.
And it's not from a place
of selfishness, though.
Rather, we serve ourselves
and fill our own cup
so that we can truly serve
others more sustainably.
And from our overflow, we
serve and flow to others.
When we're not
serving ourselves,
and we try to do so
much for other people,
we can get depleted.
And when this
happens, we won't be
able to sustain service
for the bigger picture
or in the long run.
Thus, we have to
serve ourselves first.
But we shouldn't
wait until we're
100% good and perfect before
we start to serve others.
When we step into
service to others
from a place of selflessness,
from love and honor,
rather than from any kind
of agenda or obligation,
when we do it from
the right place,
we feel full of light,
joy, and love from feeling
connected to our own divinity.
And we want to then help
others remember their divinity
and feel that love, joy,
and connection as well.
And when we are full of love,
all we want to do is give.
And we have plenty
of energy to do so.
Service to others is
about fulfilling our soul.
We actively pull the
light into us from source,
and this fills us.
From our overflow,
we then flow it
to whoever we are in
active service to.
This process raises
our vibration
because the light is filling us
as we are flowing it to others.
This is the method
of how we raise
our vibration through service.
However, for it
to truly work, we
can't be doing it
for our own sake.
It has to be for
a higher purpose,
to benefit the greater whole.
This then brings us to service
to the spirit or the divine.
It is the great work.
It's about a bigger purpose.
We're no longer just serving
one individual or small groups
of people.
Now it's a mission of
helping create a better
world, a world of peace, truly
helping humanity to awaken,
to be a part of the shift.
I as an individual am not
going to be the one who
does this on my own.
But I can be a part of
helping the collective
to awaken and ascend.
Being part of a
mission that is aligned
with creating a world
of peace and balance,
that fulfills our
spirit and brings joy.
And along that path of
service, as we grow,
our capacity to
serve also grows.
As we serve with
that new capacity,
we also feel stretched.
So we still have to be
serving ourselves, which
allows us to continue growing.
This then becomes
a feedback loop.
We grow as we serve.
We raise our
vibration as we serve.
Here, we're not
just learning from
our own personal application
and the results of our own life
but also through the
reflection of those we serve.
Through service, we gain
a deeper and different
perspective because
the needs of others
are different from our own.
Thus, we integrate in a
new way and learn a more
universal application through
the dynamic reflection
of others.
And through this process
we grow beyond ourselves
and our own perspectives.
This is what brings us to
ultimately gain wisdom.
And once we've achieved
wisdom, have we then arrived?
No.
The wise man knows
he knows nothing.
So he or she always
adapts an attitude
of the beginner's mind.
We empty our cup, remain
humble, and continue
to seek new knowledge
in new areas
so we can continue
to grow and progress.
When someone climbs the mountain
top, and they're at the peak,
they have this incredible vista.
But at the peak,
they then realize
there's all these other
mountains to climb.
They see how much more there is.
So they go back down,
empty their cup,
and seek the next mountain
to begin a new climb.
We are never so good that
we can't become better.
It is so important
that we empty our cup.
If we try to stay on top of
the mountain, we stop growing.
We stop flowing.
We stagnate.
We must stay humble.
Confident and
strong, yet humble.
And we can remind
ourselves that we
don't know what we don't know.
There is always more
room for growth.
Thus, with the
beginner's mind, we
seek new knowledge
and progression.
Even while we empty
our cup, we can never
go back to where we were
before because we've
grown through the cycle.
We know and understand
more, and we are wiser.
Our baseline is
now at a new place.
So we seek new knowledge,
apply it, and progress.
And through this, we
gain more understanding.
Then we step into
active service.
And through that service,
we gain further wisdom.
We see that there's more.
So we empty our cup, stay
humble, and seek new knowledge.
And we begin anew to
climb the next mountain.
And this cycle goes on and
on and on, without end.
Our true potential is infinite.
And we are on an eternal
journey of our spirit,
to become fully realized
in our infinite potential.
From the human perspective,
it may seem overwhelming
that this process
is never-ending.
But from the Spirit's
perspective, we are eternal.
And it gets easier and easier
the more we do the cycle.
It becomes a way of life.
The key is to not
allowing the ego
to get attached to
being the person
at the top of the mountain.
As the Hermetic principle
of vibration says,
everything moves.
Everything vibrates.
There is no standing still.
There is only movement
forwards or backwards,
progressing or regressing.
This ancient Hermetic
science of ascension
shows us how we keep
moving forward--
progressing, ascending,
and raising our baseline.
The art is in how
we apply it, how
we uniquely live
it and express it,
serving in our own unique
way by harnessing our gifts
and potentials that are ours.
Thus, along the way, we have
to come to know ourselves more,
to know our unique gifts
and way of expressing.
We also must overcome
our fears and the places
where we might
sabotage ourselves,
where we don't really feel
worthy or good enough.
Through this process, we come
to greater levels of recognition
that we are all one.
We are all connected.
If I am attaining higher levels
but my brother and sister are
not, we're not going to ascend.
We have to do this together.
It's all of us or none of us.
Thus, we serve.
The more we serve ourselves
and others as divine beings,
as embodiments of
divine consciousness,
the more we draw in the
light, the celestial fire,
of the alchemists,
and we transform
into that body of light.
Where are we as a collective
in this process of ascension?
And where do we go from here?
To answer that, let's
orient ourselves.
In our human experience, we
have multi-dimensionality.
Now, there's a common
thought among the new age
movement that talks
about ascension
into the fifth dimension.
What are we really
talking about?
It's actually more like
levels of expanded states
of consciousness and
vibration, rather than
physical spacetime dimensions.
Ancient Mystery
School teachings say
there are 12 dimensional levels
within the physical and 7
spiritual levels.
And within each of these
levels are many sublevels.
For example, in the Modern
Mystery School teachings,
we say that the first physical
dimension of consciousness
would be like the consciousness
of the elements of Earth,
water, air, and fire.
Or maybe we could think of
the consciousness of a rock
from the mineral
kingdom as an example.
With the second
dimension, we describe
the consciousness of plants,
the plant kingdom as a whole,
as well as some of
the animal kingdom.
At this level, things take
on a group consciousness.
For example, we know that
the trees of a forest
are really more like one entity.
They are all connected
under the soil
through their root systems.
Similarly, animals in the wild
tend to run in herds and packs
and flocks--
again, operating as a unit.
Now, in the third
dimension of consciousness,
we begin to evolve more towards
individuated consciousness.
For example, domesticated
animals are given names.
They are treated as
individuals by humans.
And they often can take on
the personality attributes
of their owners, yet they
still often exhibit a loyalty
to their pack or their family.
Certain primitive
humans of the past,
who lived much more
simply than we do today,
and who were primarily focused
on just a connection to nature,
they were also of a third
dimensional consciousness,
meaning their existence
was usually in relation
to being part of the tribe.
They might have been very
spiritual and in-tune but not
so complex in their
mental frameworks
as we are today, with all of
our science and technology
and multifaceted systems.
Now, as the majority
of humanity evolved
into the fourth dimension
of consciousness,
things became more complex.
We started to engage the mind.
We developed more advanced
arts and sciences.
Abstract thinking
became overlaid
on top of our emotional
levels of being.
And we also started focusing
on ourselves as individuals.
In our modern-day society,
most of the masses
are still operating at this
fourth-dimensional level
of consciousness.
How do we evolve
from here to get
to the next stage
of development?
To answer that,
let's take a look
at how we evolve
individually for a moment.
Each of us go through all
of the first four stages
in our own development.
As our physical body is
growing and wiring itself,
and our soul is being programmed
through the early stages
of life, from infancy to
childhood to our teenage years
into adulthood, we traverse
through these dimensions
or levels of consciousness.
A baby is fully focused on
stimulation from the five
senses and interacting
with the elements,
feeling the air blowing on its
face or the warmth of the body
and needing to eat.
This is a very physical
level of awareness,
a first-dimensional
consciousness.
A child starts to become
more attentive to the things
outside, out in the
garden, in nature.
We might have an
awareness of the fairy
kingdom or imaginary friends.
To children, the
plants are alive.
Objects become alive,
and we can talk to them.
Adults may call it make-believe,
but children operate mostly
at a theta brainwave
level, a level
where we can more
easily connect to spirit
with our consciousness.
But then when we get
into our pre-teen years,
we enter the
third-dimensional stage
of our conscious development.
Here we become self-conscious
about our social status
among peers or our tribe.
And it is a very emotional time
in our developmental process.
We operate more on instincts,
impulses, and emotions,
rather than reason, intellect,
or executive functioning.
The fourth-dimensional
consciousness,
though, is then related
to our teenage years,
as we enter into high
school, and all the way
into our early 20s.
Here we're learning
more abstract concepts.
We develop our logic capacities
and our mental constructs.
And on top of our
emotional life,
we become more multi-dimensional
in our operations as a result.
Now, the higher we go
in these dimensions,
the more complexity, the
more multi-dimensionality
our consciousness is able to
perceive, consolidate, and make
sense of.
Now, at this stage, the majority
of human thought and human ways
of being on the
planet today are still
operating in the
fourth-dimensional state
of consciousness.
We've become a bit
stuck as a collective.
If we still lived in
a spiritual society,
our education system would
be very different than what
we have today.
It would include spiritual
wisdom and understanding
of mythologies and
archetypal forces.
But instead, in our
materially-driven, utilitarian
world, our education
and programming
has become about
what's practical
and what will make us
become a good participant
in our social system.
What's needed is a balance
between spiritual wisdom
and physical practicality.
Were meant to be going beyond
this fourth-dimensional way
of thinking.
And if our society and
education were more balanced,
we would naturally progress
to the fifth-dimensional
consciousness by the
time we are in our 20s.
And what do we mean here
by a fifth-dimensional
consciousness?
Well, the fifth dimension
is about archetypes.
It's an awareness
of the archetypes,
such as astrological cycles of
the sun, the moon, the stars
and how they influence us, plus
an awareness of the archetypes
of human consciousness, how
they show up in our books
and movies, in our lives
and our relationships
with other people, an awareness
of asking the question, what
archetype am I?
Or what combination
of archetypes
do I tend to fulfill
in the lives of others?
This fifth-dimensional
awareness is
supposed to be the
result of our education.
But unfortunately,
since we're not
living in a spiritual society
that passes on universal wisdom
to the next
generation, we're not
getting the kind of education
we really need to advance.
When people step onto
a path of seeking
light and deeper
knowledge, they do
start exploring this
archetypal awareness.
Examples can include astrology,
tarot, numerology, Kabbalah,
and various mythologies
and cosmologies
from ancient mystery
traditions of the world.
These all offer windows
into this archetypal way
of viewing things.
This step into the
fifth-dimensional state
of consciousness is
part of our progression
to become spiritual adults.
Physically, we might
be adults, and we may
have advanced our knowledge.
But emotionally and
spiritually, most of humanity
is stuck in that
fourth dimension.
Some are even stuck in the
third-dimensional consciousness
due to unresolved
traumas in youth
or because of improper
education and programming.
Yet now, in our adulthood,
through re-educating ourselves
and through committing
to our healing journey,
we can resolve
these lower levels
and give ourselves the platform
that we need to progress
and ascend to higher
levels of consciousness.
The key is that we
focus on progressing,
both physically and
spiritually, in a balanced way.
If we are so focused on just
our physical life and not
the spiritual, we may
progress physically.
But we might feel
poor spiritually.
We may have physical wealth,
but something inside is missing.
On the other hand, if we
progressed spiritually,
but we're neglecting
ourselves physically,
we won't attain
our full potential
at the physical level.
This happens when we
are trying to escape
our physicality, for
example, instead of living
in this physical life.
We must balance both if we
are to master ourselves.
We should be manifesting
our full potential
into the physical.
When we do, things like money
are no longer a limitation.
Resources and the ability
to make things happen
are at our disposal.
They no longer pose
limitations for us.
Rather than hanging
out in fantasy land,
we know how to
make things happen
to manifest at the
physical levels,
yet in a way that is aligned
with spiritual purpose.
To do so, we must harness both
spiritual and physical sides
of life in balance.
As we progress in this
ability, we eventually
come to the sixth-dimensional
level of consciousness.
The sixth dimension is conscious
awareness of the higher self.
Now, people on a spiritual
path often access
this level of awareness.
But the question is whether we
are living as our higher self.
If so, our full-time job
would be fully aligned
with our purpose in life,
not just a side thing
to pursue when we have the time.
We'd be coming from our
higher self in our perspective
and how we behave in
situations, rather than
from egoic reactions.
Now, ego will always be there,
no matter how far we progress.
So long as we are physical,
we will have an ego.
Thus, we have to learn
to keep it in check.
Now, the sixth
dimension is really
just the halfway point on the
various levels of attainment.
They keep on going to higher
and higher levels of mastery
and expanded awareness.
The higher we
attain, the more we
should be able to also
manifest and express
our full potential
into the physical
through abundance, by bringing
hope, being in service,
harnessing the powers
of the universe,
and creating whatever it is
we set our will to create.
The highest level of awareness,
the 12th physical dimension,
is about oneness
with divine source,
or oneness with all that is,
operating wholly and completely
in the Agape love.
This 12th-dimensional
level of consciousness
is fully tapped into the
Agape, living that oneness
with our divinity.
Not from a place of ego but
from a place of pure awareness,
knowing that we are
worthy, that we are divine.
Few people on our
planet really, truly
ever attain such
a level to date.
But this is the level we
are capable of attaining
and our one-day
prophecy to reach.
It is what the
Kabbalists call the Adam
Kadmon, or the
perfected, godlike human,
with a fully
transfigured light body
and fully emanating
the vibration of love.
That is ascension to the
highest level of consciousness.
And it is attainable while
in the physical body.
This is what is spoken of
as the Philosopher's Stone.
As the Emerald Tablets
of Hermes describe,
"Therefore, let all
obscurity flee before thee.
This is the strong
fortitude of all fortitudes,
overcoming every subtle
thing and penetrating
every solid thing."
This is the attainment of
merging with our immortality,
merging our physical body
with our eternal spirit.
It is the state of a
transfigured light body
with no more impurities
or densities in the system
that cause death or decay.
This is the ultimate level.
But for the most
part, we're still
operating at that
fourth-dimensional level.
And we have a ways to go.
Fortunately, though, there is
a growing collective of people
who are on a
spiritual path, that
are living at that
fifth dimension, or even
the sixth-dimensional levels
of consciousness already.
They are helping lead the way
for the greater collective
to also make this shift.
So what is our goal?
Our goal would be, ultimately,
that 12th-dimensional level
of unity, consciousness,
and Agape love.
We have the chance to move the
direction of the collective.
But this depends on
how much we implement
a spiritual practice,
while also integrating it
into the physical.
Not just living on the
mountaintop or monastery
but immersing ourselves in life.
The world as a
collective is not going
to ascend unless we do it
together at some level.
We are meant to be in
the world, integrating
a spiritual practice
and philosophy
into our physical
life and society.
Through this process, we bring
heaven and earth together.
If we as a collective
can shift, if we
can make the leap from
the fourth-dimensional
consciousness just up to the
sixth dimension, where everyone
is fulfilling their
unique purpose
and aligned with
their higher self,
that's all we'd need
to create Shambala,
or what we would call a
world of peace and balance.
And those who are leading
the way by living the way
and being true to
that way, they're
the ones to climb to the
higher levels of attainment
beyond the sixth dimension.
How can a relatively
small group of individuals
help to shift the
global collective?
Well, as Margaret
Mead famously said,
"Never doubt that a small
group of thoughtful, committed
citizens can change the world.
Indeed, it's the only
thing that ever has."
Now, scientific
research confirms
that only a small
percentage of the population
is needed to shift
into a coherent state.
Once a critical
mass of coherence
has been achieved and sustained
by the small percentage
of people, then the
rest of the collective
can spontaneously attune
to this new level.
Intention experiments using
random number generators
conducted by the Princeton
Engineering Anomalies Research
team concluded that, "With a
sufficiently large community
of individuals or organisms
in resonance with each other
and with a common purpose,
the cumulative impact
on the manifest physical
and cognitive domains
becomes significant
and measurable."
We can speculate on what that
critical mass number may be.
For sure, I believe it
will be less than 3%
of the world population.
Some predictions narrow
this critical number
even further to be the square
root of 1% of the population.
If this critical number
of people across the world
dedicate themselves to
their spiritual growth
and sustainably achieve
those coherent states
by integrating with
their higher self
and living their life purpose,
that sixth-dimensional level
of consciousness, we will
successfully make this shift
as a collective.
These dedicated
souls are the trail
blazers who have the courage
and devotion to doing
the great work.
As individuals,
these people likely
will feel that they don't fit
in with the rest of the world.
But as they find each
other and bond together
as a spiritual family
of lightworkers,
uniting in one mission,
they will find strength
in each other.
This is why working together in
groups versus just on one's own
can have an enhanced effect
on the coherence field.
When we also add to this
effort true initiation
into the ancient
Mystery School lineages,
the impact on the
collective becomes even more
amplified and accelerated,
with 10 times, 100 times, even
1,000 times the power.
When we can get this critical
mass of people, those
who are dedicated
to doing the work
for personal and
spiritual mastery,
we will tip the scales
towards the awakening
of the collective.
The masses will then
intuitively start
to entrain into these new
levels of consciousness.
And those who are
leading the charge
will continue to lead
as we then implement
these new levels
of consciousness
to create a better world.
From a Kabbalistic
perspective, humanity
is currently standing at the
edge of what we call the abyss.
The abyss is about separation.
Here, we are faced with our
fears, our limiting structures
that don't work anymore,
and the things that need
to be changed or let go of.
This point on our collective
journey is a perilous one.
It can be confusing
and tumultuous,
with many doubts and
fears that can arise here.
And the keys to ascending
across the abyss
safely and successfully
include things
like moving beyond
ideas of separation
into unity and divinity,
walking forward
in faith and humbleness,
cutting away the old to create
room for the new, having the
courage, love, and trust to let
go of what no longer serves.
And this is a
point of reclaiming
the true self, our
true potential,
reuniting with our
divinity, and recognizing
that we are all one.
This is the precipice we
are at, the great leap
in human consciousness and
our collective evolution.
What can we do right now
to be part of this shift?
First, we must build up our
light body, our ascension
vehicle.
Many consider this to be the
star tetrahedron Merkabah.
But the deeper
teachings from Kabbalah
offer us a different
perspective.
From the perspective of
pure sacred geometry,
the foundation of all things
is based on the triangle,
the square, and the circle.
As we expand these
from 2D to 3D,
they become the pyramid,
the cube, and the sphere.
These three geometries,
when stacked
one on top of the other, with
the sphere at the bottom,
the cube in the middle,
and the pyramid at the top,
become the outer form of the
three-dimensional tree of life.
This three-dimensional
tree of life
is the outer scaffolding
that is our true Merkabah.
This is something we have
to build up within us.
The art and science
of how to do this
properly is something we do
through the universal Kabbalah
system of the Mystery School.
But for now, let's begin
by visualizing the lower
half of the body immersed in
a sphere from the waist down.
Then imagine a cube from the
waist up to the shoulders.
And finally, see a
pyramid covering the head.
Start with this visualization,
holding it strongly
within the mind for
30 minutes per day.
After one month of stabilizing
the outer scaffolding,
begin bringing in the details
now of the tree of life,
working from the bottom up.
Start first with the
two-dimensional tree.
And then over time,
build up to working
with the three-dimensional tree.
Now, proper knowledge
is important.
But if we don't apply it in
our lives, nothing will change.
Applying the knowledge
requires the right keys,
which the path of
initiation gives us.
We have the tools to really help
us achieve this coherent states
and accelerate our evolution.
Using the tools that are
going to work effectively
takes commitment.
It also asks us to
do the work on behalf
of the whole of humanity because
we are people who really dream
of living in a
world of peace, joy,
and love, a world of Shambala.
Join me again as
we discover how do
we accelerate our progression
using Vitruvian numerology.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard.
Thank you for
exploring the mysteries
of our human potential with
me in this episode of "Mystery
Teachings."
[MUSIC PLAYING]